more information about mqtt performance impact considerations & update a file name (#2170)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_decreasing-performance-impact-of-the-pull-based-rex-transport.adoc

[id="Decreasing_performance_impact_of_the_pull-based_REX_transport_{context}"]
= Decreasing Performance Impact of the Pull-Based REX Transport

When {ProjectServer} is configured to use REX pull-based transport for remote execution jobs using "Script" provider, {SmartProxyServer} sends a notification about new job to the client machines via MQTT.
This notification does not include actual workload (actual script) the client is supposed to execute.
Once a client receives a message about a new remote execution job, it queries the {SmartProxyServer} for actual payload.

> As the client executes the job, it periodically sends outputs of the job to the capsule,further increasing the number of requests to {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the job, it periodically sends outputs of the job to {SmartProxyServer}, further increasing the number of requests to {SmartProxyServer}.
```

> These requests to {SmartProxyServer} together with high concurrency allowed by MQTT protocol can cause exhaustion of {SmartProxyServer} available connections and some requests might fail, making some child tasks of remote execution jobs to hang. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These requests to {SmartProxyServer} together with high concurrency allowed by MQTT protocol can cause exhaustion of {SmartProxyServer} available connections and some requests might fail, making some child tasks of remote execution jobs unresponsive. 
```

Is there a better wording @asteflova ?

This also depends on actual job payload, as some jobs are causing additional load to {ProjectServer}, making it compete for resources if you are using integrated {SmartProxyServer}.

> To avoid this, configure your {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer} deployment appropriately with the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid this, configure your {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer} with the following parameters:
```

> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
> ----
> * MQTT Time To Live {endash} Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered
> * MQTT Rate Limit {endash} Number of jobs that are allowed to run at the same time
> * MQTT Resend Interval {endash} Time interval in seconds at which the notification should be re-sent to the host until the job is picked up or cancelled
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MQTT Time To Live::
Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered
MQTT Rate Limit::
Number of jobs that are allowed to run at the same time
MQTT Resend Interval::
Time interval in seconds at which the notification should be re-sent to the host until the job is picked up or cancelled
```

alternative suggestion to show this. I am unsure about the bullet points within a code block.

Author: Hello, thank you for your suggestion. I am working on the performance testing for these values. Will edit or update this in next coming week.

> In order to tune these parameters you can follow the following procedure on the {ProjectServer}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure
* Tune the MQTT parameters on your {ProjectServer}:
```

[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
{foreman-installer} \
--foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mqtt-rate-limit _My_MQTT_Rate_Limit_ \
--foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mqtt-resend-interval _My_MQTT_Resend_Interval_ \
--foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mqtt-ttl _My_MQTT_Time_To_Live_

> ----

Reviewer: Do you know of any sensible values a user might pick? @Imaanpreet

Author: Hello @maximiliankolb : I am doing the performance testing in order to give you some values, will share when we are done with our testing.

Author: Hello @adamruzicka : can we suggest some values from our testing now?

Author: Added the content. So resolving this conversation.

[id="Decreasing_performance_impact_of_the_pull-based_REX_transport_{context}"]
= Decreasing Performance Impact of the Pull-Based REX Transport

When {ProjectServer} is configured to use REX pull-based transport for remote execution jobs using "Script" provider, {SmartProxyServer} sends a notification about new jobs to clients through MQTT.
This notification does not include the actual workload that the client is supposed to execute.

> After a client receives a message about a new remote execution job, it queries the {SmartProxyServer} for its actual payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a client receives a message about a new remote execution job, it queries {SmartProxyServer} for its actual payload.
```

During the job, it periodically sends outputs of the job to {SmartProxyServer}, further increasing the number of requests to {SmartProxyServer}.

> These requests to {SmartProxyServer} together with high concurrency allowed by MQTT protocol can cause exhaustion of {SmartProxyServer} available connections and some requests might fail, making some child tasks of remote execution jobs unresponsive. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These requests to {SmartProxyServer} together with high concurrency allowed by the MQTT protocol can cause exhaustion of available connections on {SmartProxyServer}.
Some requests might fail, making some child tasks of remote execution jobs unresponsive. 
```

> This also depends on actual job payload, as some jobs are causing additional load to {ProjectServer}, making it compete for resources if you are using integrated {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also depends on actual job payload, as some jobs are causing additional load to {ProjectServer}, making it compete for resources if clients are registered to {ProjectServer}.
```

Does that make sense to you?

After a client receives a message about a new remote execution job, it queries {SmartProxyServer} for its actual payload.
During the job, it periodically sends outputs of the job to {SmartProxyServer}, further increasing the number of requests to {SmartProxyServer}.

These requests to {SmartProxyServer} together with high concurrency allowed by the MQTT protocol can cause exhaustion of available connections on {SmartProxyServer}.
Some requests might fail, making some child tasks of remote execution jobs unresponsive. 
This also depends on actual job payload, as some jobs are causing additional load to {ProjectServer}, making it compete for resources if clients are registered to {ProjectServer}.

To avoid this, configure your {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer} with the following parameters:

* MQTT Time To Live {endash} Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered
* MQTT Resend Interval {endash} Time interval in seconds at which the notification should be re-sent to the host until the job is picked up or cancelled
* MQTT Rate Limit {endash} Number of jobs that are allowed to run at the same time.

> You can limit the concurrency of remote execution by tuning the rate limit which means you are going to put more load on Satellite.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can limit the concurrency of remote execution by tuning the rate limit which means you are going to put more load on {Project}.
```

* MQTT Rate Limit {endash} Number of jobs that are allowed to run at the same time.
You can limit the concurrency of remote execution by tuning the rate limit which means you are going to put more load on Satellite.
----
.Procedure
* Tune the MQTT parameters on your {ProjectServer}:

[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> {foreman-installer} \

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# {foreman-installer} \
```

--foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mqtt-ttl _My_MQTT_Time_To_Live_
----

{SmartProxyServer} logs are in `/var/log/foreman-proxy/proxy.log`. 
{SmartProxyServer} uses Webrick HTTP server (no httpd or Puma involved), so there is no simple way to increase its capacity.

[NOTE]
====

> Depending on the workload, number of hosts, available resources, and applied tuning one may hit a https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2244811[Bug 2244811], which may cause the capsule to consume too much memory and eventually be killed, making the rest of the job fail. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the workload, number of hosts, available resources, and applied tuning, you might hit the https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2244811[Bug 2244811], which causes {SmartProxy} to consume too much memory and eventually be killed, making the rest of the job fail. 
```

> .Note
> * Depending on the workload, number of hosts, available resources and applied tuning one may hit a https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2244811[Bug 2244811] , which may cause the capsule to consume too much memory and eventually being killed, making the rest of the job fail. 
> At the moment there is no universally applicable workaround.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
Depending on the workload, number of hosts, available resources and applied tuning one may hit a https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2244811[Bug 2244811] , which may cause the capsule to consume too much memory and eventually being killed, making the rest of the job fail. 
At the moment there is no universally applicable workaround.
====
```
If you want to add a `NOTE`

When {ProjectServer} is configured to use REX pull-based transport for remote execution jobs using "Script" provider, {SmartProxyServer} sends a notification about new jobs to clients through MQTT.
This notification does not include the actual workload that the client is supposed to execute.
After a client receives a message about a new remote execution job, it queries {SmartProxyServer} for its actual payload.
During the job, it periodically sends outputs of the job to {SmartProxyServer}, further increasing the number of requests to {SmartProxyServer}.

These requests to {SmartProxyServer} together with high concurrency allowed by the MQTT protocol can cause exhaustion of available connections on {SmartProxyServer}.
Some requests might fail, making some child tasks of remote execution jobs unresponsive. 
This also depends on actual job payload, as some jobs are causing additional load to {ProjectServer}, making it compete for resources if clients are registered to {ProjectServer}.

To avoid this, configure your {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer} with the following parameters:

[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]

> ----

Reviewer 2: @Imaanpreet This has to be fixed.

> * MQTT Time To Live {endash} Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered

Reviewer: Does it break the HTML @mjivraja ? Please provide a link/screenshot.

> * MQTT Time To Live {endash} Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered

Reviewer 3: It does not break HTML but looks unusual.

![image](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/assets/101559972/9020d6c4-3de5-4c4d-8410-9672b8b26343)

> * MQTT Time To Live {endash} Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered

Reviewer: This is not supposed to happen. Weird. Do you know what's going on here? @Lennonka

> * MQTT Time To Live {endash} Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered

Reviewer 2: It's because the list was surrounded with a code block. I'm assuming this will be fixed on the next push, because I've addressed it in a [comment that is already resolved](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/2170/files#r1381907119)

> * MQTT Time To Live {endash} Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered

Reviewer 2: I don't think there should be periods at the ends of the items, because they aren't whole sentences.

> * MQTT Time To Live {endash} Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered

Reviewer 2: @Imaanpreet Please, follow up on this.

* MQTT Resend Interval {endash} Time interval in seconds at which the notification should be re-sent to the host until the job is picked up or cancelled
* MQTT Rate Limit {endash} Number of jobs that are allowed to run at the same time.
You can limit the concurrency of remote execution by tuning the rate limit which means you are going to put more load on Satellite.

> ----

Reviewer 2: @Imaanpreet This has to be fixed.

.Procedure
* Tune the MQTT parameters on your {ProjectServer}:

[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-installer} \
--foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mqtt-rate-limit _My_MQTT_Rate_Limit_ \
--foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mqtt-resend-interval _My_MQTT_Resend_Interval_ \
--foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mqtt-ttl _My_MQTT_Time_To_Live_
----

{SmartProxyServer} logs are in `/var/log/foreman-proxy/proxy.log`. 

> {SmartProxyServer} uses Webrick HTTP server (no httpd or Puma involved), so there is no simple way to increase its capacity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{SmartProxyServer} uses Webrick HTTP server (no httpd or Puma involved), so there is no simple way to increase its capacity.
```

Reviewer 2: @Imaanpreet This has to be fixed.

[NOTE]
====

> Depending on the workload, number of hosts, available resources and applied tuning one may hit a https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2244811[Bug 2244811] , which may cause the capsule to consume too much memory and eventually being killed, making the rest of the job fail. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the workload, number of hosts, available resources, and applied tuning, one may hit a https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2244811[Bug 2244811] , which may cause {SmartProxy} to consume too much memory and eventually be killed, making the rest of the job fail. 
```

[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
* MQTT Time To Live {endash} Time interval in seconds given to the host to pick up the job before considering the job undelivered
* MQTT Resend Interval {endash} Time interval in seconds at which the notification should be re-sent to the host until the job is picked up or cancelled

> * MQTT Rate Limit {endash} Number of jobs that are allowed to run at the same time.You can limit the concurrency of remote execution by tuning the rate limit which means you are going to put more load on Satellite.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* MQTT Rate Limit {endash} Number of jobs that are allowed to run at the same time. 
You can limit the concurrency of remote execution by tuning the rate limit which means you are going to put more load on Satellite.
```
